I decided to use Python for this assignment because I have general familiariity with the language but had never worked with networking libraries or implementations using it. Therea are of course also many resources available to assist Python programmers with networking projects, and it seems a popular choice for both past participants of CS3700 and general networking engineering.

The four general challenges associated with this project were: argument parsing, socket connection and communication, encoding / decoding data, and parsing the math problems in status messages. I have used the argparse library in the past and was able to implement this without any problems. The library handles incorrect inputs well, and simplifies the process of handling datatypes. Socket connection and communication was handled using the Python socket library. The library allows for simple connection to a given hostname and port, as implemented in the socket_setup function. Once the socket is set up correctly, including SSL secure wrapping if necessary, the program processes the incoming messages from the server and responds with the answer to the math problem, with correct formatting. Encoding and decoding this information from strings to bytes and vice versa was a surprise to me, as I have not had to deal with this before. Not too difficult though! After this, once the final BYE message is encountered, the program prints out the secret flag and exits.

In preliminary testing, I spent some time playing with sample code for the socket library. I was able to establish a connection to the server in an interactive Python session and send data back and forth. This was helpful in understanding the order of commands / messages to follow in my final program. I used these structures in my program as it stands now, and tested along the way to ensure the communication was occurring as I expected it to. Later on, I tested individual components such as information encoding / decoding and argument parsing separately. Once I felt comfortable with these I integrated them together into the final program. I then tested all possible combinations of CLI argument inputs to ensure I had covered my bases in terms of user input.